Valerie Plame Wilson, former CIA operative, wants to buy Twitter and ban President Trump
Valerie Plame Wilson¡¯s on a mission to get President Trump off Twitter.
How?
By buying it, of course.
Wilson ¡ª best known for being revealed as a CIA operative because of a leak during the George W. Bush administration ¡ª has started a GoFundMe page to buy a controlling interest in Twitter, in order to delete the president¡¯s account. The company is currently worth nearly $12 billion, with its shares going for around $16.
Donald Trump has done a lot of horrible things on Twitter. From emboldening white supremacists to promoting violence against journalists, his tweets damage the country and put people in harm¡¯s way, Wilson wrote on the campaign¡¯s page "But threatening actual nuclear war with North Korea takes it to a dangerous new level."
The goal: $1 billion. That might be a stretch, though. Wilson has raised more than $3,000 since she launched the campaign on August 16.
At the current market rate that would require over a billion dollars ¡ª but that¡¯s a small price to pay to take away Trump¡¯s most powerful megaphone and prevent a horrific nuclear war, Plame wrote.
If they aren¡¯t able to meet that goal, the plan is to buy a "significant stake" in order to push the proposal at the annual stakeholder¡¯s meeting, Plame said.
Twitter has previously defended Trump¡¯s use of the platform. Back in May, CEO Jack Dorsey said it was important for people to "hear directly from our leadership."
Twitter did not immediately return a request for comment on Tuesday.
One analyst estimated that eliminating the president¡¯s tweets would wipe out $2 billion of Twitter¡¯s market value, according to Bloomberg News.
The president is known for going on tweetstorms. Wilson described his actions as "weaponizing Twitter," and pointed to the president¡¯s tweet that said the military was "locked and loaded" for a response to North Korea.
Tweets like this are heard around the world, Wilson said. "As he uses his biggest platform to escalate the crisis, this could all-too-easily spark a military confrontation that goes nuclear."