Apple sales boosted by services growth
Technology giant Apple, best known for its iPhones and computers, said newer lines of business such as Apple Pay, the App Store and Apple Music helped to drive growth in its third quarter.
The services unit was what one analyst described as a "shining light" during a period with robust sales across Apple¡¯s different product lines, including iPhones and iPads.
The firm said quarterly revenues grew by 7% year-on-year to $45.4bn, news that sent its stock surging more than 5% in after-hours trade.
It also forecast strong sales ahead.
Apple is expected to release new and updated iPhones next month.
Apple chief executive Tim Cook was tight-lipped when it came to details on the new launch and said reports about the new phones may have caused some people to "pause" their purchases of the existing phones.
But "while that affects us in the short-term, it probably bodes well", he added.
Even with some people waiting for the new models, Apple said the number of iPhones sold in the quarter increased a solid 2% year-on-year, driven by strong demand in markets such as Latin America and the Middle East.
The growth lifted revenue from iPhones, which account for the bulk of the company¡¯s sales, by 3% to $24.8bn.
Apple also said the number of iPads sold climbed 28% year-on-year, while revenues from the product increased 2%.
Revenue from other devices, such as the Apple Watch, Apple TV and Beats products, jumped 23% year-on-year.
Mr Cook stressed the success of its services unit, which includes Apple Pay, the App Store and Apple Music. The division had sales of nearly $7.3bn during the three months to the end of June, a rise of 22% on the same period last year.
Apple Pay now accounts for almost 90% of mobile payment transactions around the world, said chief financial officer Luca Maestri. Paying accounts on the App Store are also on the rise, he said.
Geoff Blaber of CCS Insight described the services business "the shining light".
"Not only is $7.3 billion in revenue hugely significant in its own right, it underlines the ecosystem advantage it has over its competitors outside of China," he said.
Mr Cook also addressed the firm¡¯s decision to remove some products from its App store in China, saying Apple had to abide by the law.
"We would obviously rather not remove the apps," he said. "We¡¯re hopeful that over time the restrictions we¡¯re seeing are loosened."
Analysis
One of the big worries for investors - and Apple fans, you¡¯d imagine - is that concern that the next iPhone, due in September, could be delayed due to production issues.
But judging by Apple¡¯s revenue forecasts for the rest of the year, it seems this will not be the case. It means we can expect anticipation for a big upgrade to the iPhone to step into overdrive, what with it being the device¡¯s 10th anniversary year.
In those 10 years, 1.2 billion iPhones have been sold, Mr Cook told investors today.
Apple relies on it heavily for its revenue, which some see as being a weakness in the company - but this quarter has also provided good news for investors when it comes to generating big profits in other areas.
And Apple¡¯s services department - App Store and Apple Music, mostly - had revenues of more than $7.2bn in this last quarter. That makes it, as Apple was delighted to point out today, the size of a Fortune 100 company in its own right.