Company executives had boasted McDonald¡¯s in the United States have been exposed to food scandal
Yesterday, has released a U.S. McDonald¡¯s ice cream machine is refers to the serious moldy public number. Yesterday evening, micro-blog Chinese McDonald¡¯s official statement said, in Chinese, McDonald¡¯s use of ice cream equipment, daily automatic timing heating disinfection, ensure food safety. And the dramatic, on the same day, McDonald¡¯s released a brisk two quarterly, company executives will face the scandal has just promised......
Yesterday, a number of public WeChat published an article that a Mai Don Laurie in the American state of Louisiana, the local college Nick decided to apply for McDonald¡¯s kitchen helper. After about 5 days of work, the manager arranged in ice cream making job for him. After work, Nick inadvertently opened an ice cream machine cover, a rotten SuanChou pumianerlai. Subsequently, he found that McDonald¡¯s store cream machine groove, attached to a thick layer of already moldy cream. The manager not only said that the summer ice cream business is so good, no time to clean up, also said it would not pay overtime for Nick to clean. The second day, Nick was dismissed.
Nick put the matter on twitter, to July 26th, this tweet has been forwarded 13000 times, boarded the hot search twitter. At present, the U.S. Food Safety Agency (FDA) has been involved in the investigation.
25 afternoon, McDonald¡¯s stock intraday diving, plummeting to 1.3 percentage points. The market value in just one hour, the direct evaporate as much as $one hundred million! Jumping type of such stock plummeted, McDonald¡¯s Corporation unexpected, although after the rise, but the obvious impact of McDonald¡¯s. Shortly thereafter, McDonald¡¯s CEO, Steve East (Steve Easterbrook) was in the company held an emergency meeting, with more than 100 employees, with a long face said "this is McDonald¡¯s There was no parallel in history. public relations crisis"!
However, according to 25, McDonald¡¯s announced results, the company¡¯s second quarter net profit year-on-year increase of $1 billion 400 million, an increase of 28%, operating income due to factors such as the dollar fell more than 3% to $6 billion 50 million, but still better than market expectations. "We are building a better McDonald¡¯s, it seems that more and more consumers to pay attention to this point." Steve Easterbrook said.
In fact, recent fast-food giants performance is very bad.
At the end of 6, according to a sample survey of the top three UK coffee shop chain Starbucks, Costa, Neal coffee ice drink was discovered in the scandal. The three coffee giant was found using the drinks of ice are fecal coliform. This Beijing Daily reporter interviewed by Starbucks China, in response to food and beverage Chinese Starbucks is safe.