CNN selected 40 beautiful places in China. Is your hometown on the list?
Almost all of us are familiar with China°Øs great man-made attractions: The Forbidden City in Beijing. The Terracotta Warriors of Xi°Øan. Shanghai°Øs skyscraper forest in Pudong.
For a country of its massive size and varied geography, however, it°Øs surprising how relatively few people outside China appreciate the extent of the country°Øs other attractions, many of them natural wonders to rival any in the world.
So, let°Øs have a look at them~
Anhui
Hongcun Ancient Village
Reasons:
The 900-year-old village of Hongcun has long drawn in-the-know Chinese visitors, who love its tranquil vibe and distinctive architecture.
Walking the narrow lanes paved with quartzite and seeing farmers working in rice fields, with the reflection of ancient houses in the lake, should provide enough material to get you started on your own visual masterpiece.
And another listed is the famous Mount Huangshan.
Fujian
Mount Wuyi
Reasons:
Bamboo raft drifting in the Nine Bend River (lower gorge) is a popular activity among visitors.
The two-hour, eight-kilometer trips provide grand views of Mount Wuyi. It°Øs the best way to take in the serene beauty of the smooth peaks and clear water.
And another listed is Xiapu Mudflat£¨a beautiful scenery.
Gansu
Echoing Sand Mountain and Crescent Lake
Reasons:
Echoing Sand Mountain is a series of dunes surrounding Crescent Lake. Named for its distinctive shape and aural characteristics, its echoes can be heard as the wind blows over the dunes.
Guangdong
Fortress Towers, Kaiping
Reasons:
Erected mostly in the early 20th century, the fortress towers at Kaiping were built by famously outbound Kaipingers, who brought home the many architectural styles they saw abroad, including Islamic, Roman and even ancient Greek.
Guangxi
Yangshuo
Reasons:
Downtown is touristy. Visitors can rent bikes and head to the countryside to find a more calming scene: bamboo boats chugging along the river, fishermen setting out with cormorants, farmers toiling in fields with lush peaks soaring high above.
Guizhou
Huangguoshu Waterfall
Reasons:
The highest waterfall in Asia, majestic Huangguoshu "Yellow Fruit Tree" Waterfall plunges a dramatic 77.8 meters across a 101-meter-wide span.
It°Øs one of a handful of mammoth waterfalls in the world that°Øs accessible for viewing from almost any angle -- from above, below, front, back, left or right. The best visiting season is June to August.
Hainan
Guanyin Statue
Reasons:
Look beyond the beaches of Sanya to find the world°Øs largest Guanyin statue, erected near Nanshan.
Yalong Bay favored by tourists was also come into the list.
Hebei
Chengde Mountain Resort
Reasons:
A UNESCO World Heritage Site, this mountain resort was once a summer palace used by Qing Dynasty emperors on holiday.
Delicate gardens and a 70-meter pagoda remain. Lush grasslands, marvelous mountains and tranquil valleys still make it a cool place to avoid the heat.
Heilongjiang
Saint Sophia Cathedral, Harbin
Reasons:
The largest Orthodox church in East and Southeast Asia stands in China°Øs most Russian-accented city, Harbin.
Henan
Longtan Valley
Reasons:
This 12-kilometer, U-shaped valley marked by a stripe of purplish red quartz sandstone has earned the name, "The No.1 Valley of Narrow Gorges in China."
Its steep cliffs, lush vegetation and jagged valley attract sightseers from all over China.
Hubei
One Incense Pillar, Enshi Canyon
Reasons:
This incense stick-shaped structure is 150 meters tall, but only four meters wide, making it incredible that it stands at all, let alone that it°Øs survived several major earthquakes.
Local legend holds that the pillar is a piece of incense given by a deity to the ingenious Tujia people. The residents could light it in times of disaster and the deity would descend to help.
And Shennongjia was listed as well.
Hunan
Fenghuang
Reasons:
Every year, armies of young backpackers flock to the ancient town of Fenghuang for its rich Miao and Tujia ethnic culture.
Many also come to pay homage to celebrated Chinese writer Shen Congwen (…Ú¥”Œƒ), whose novel "Frontier City" put the 1,300-year-old town in limelight.
Zhangjiajie is also in the list. What°Øs familiar with the foreign media is that the inspiration in Avatar is originated from this place.
Inner Mongolia
Singing Sand Bay
Reasons:
Singing Sand Bay is a 110-meter-high dune, 50 kilometers from Baotou, a major city of Inner Mongolia autonomous region. Sliding off a 45-degree angle, the wind here is said to sing in soft whispers.
Jiangsu
Brahma Palace
Reasons:
Feng shui and Buddhism have deep influences on China. Both can be found at Brahma Palace.
Beneath the foot of Little Lingshan Mountain, and near Taihu Lake and the 88-meter-tall Lingshan Giant Budda, the palace epitomizes Chinese feng shui -- it°Øs surrounded by mountains and water, portending both good fortune and health.
Jiangxi
Mount Lu
Reasons:
Upward of 1,500 famed painters and poets from various periods of ancient and modern China -- Li Bai of the Tang Dynasty and Xu Zhimo in 1920s, to name two -- have traveled here to be inspired by Lu. Masterpiece poems are engraved in calligraphy on the mountain cliffs.
Wuyuan£¨known as its rapeseeds, is also in the list.
Jilin
Heaven Lake, Changbai Mountain
Reasons:
The vodka-clear Heaven Lake is said to resemble a piece of jade surrounded by 16 peaks of the Changbai Mountain National Reserve. With an average depth of 204 meters, it°Øs the deepest lake in China.
Liaoning
Benxi Water Cave
Reasons:
Exploding with color, the Benxi Water Cave was formed more than five million years ago. Today its main sections are a "drought cave" and a "water cave."
A dramatic array of stalagmites and stalactites are covered in vibrant greens, yellows and reds.
Golden Pebble Beach National Resort, Dalian is also listed.
Ningxia
Sand Lake
Reasons:
Desert, water and reed mashes blend in this 80-square-kilometer area, which forms a unique geographic phenomenon called sand lake.
More than 1 million migrating birds of various species stop over at this wetland in Ningxia twice a year (April-May, September-October).
Qinghai
Qinghai Lake
Reasons:
China°Øs largest inland saltwater lake. This view is one of the great draws of Qinghai Province in China°Øs far northwest every June and July.
Few tourists make it to this part of China to enjoy this oil painting of a scene, not counting packs of mad cyclists who come for Tour de Qinghai Lake International Cycling Race every summer.
Shaanxi
Xi°Øan City Wall
Reasons:
In addition to the world-renowned Great Wall, the city wall belonging to Xi°Øan, first constructed more than 2,000 years ago, also represents the power and wisdom of the Middle Kingdom in its ancient heyday.
What exists of the wall today are remains from 1370, when during the Ming Dynasty the fortification was 13.7 kilometers long, 12 meters high and between 15 to 18 meters wide. It now surrounds downtown Xi°Øan.
Spend three or four hours biking along the wall and you°Øll get great views of China°Øs old capital city.
Shandong
Trestle Bridge, Qingdao
Reasons:
As old as the city of Qingdao, the Trestle Bridge has sat astride the Yellow Sea since 1892 and has since become a symbol of the city.
Walking the 440-meter-long bridge is a great way to enjoy breezes coming off the sea.
Shanxi
Hukou Waterfall
Reasons:
As the largest waterfall on the Yellow River, and second largest in China, Hukou Waterfall is known around the country for once gracing the RMB 50 note.
At 20 meters high and 30 meters wide, the fall is located on the border of Shanxi and Shaanxi provinces. The May to October flood season is the best time to visit, when water flow and velocity increase, sometime swelling the fall into a 50-meter-wide spectacular scene.
Sichuan
Jiuzhaigou
Reasons:
This massive lake is the crown jewel of Jiuzhaigou, a region full of stunning alpine lakes and waterfalls.
The lake is filled with incredible water that changes color throughout the day and year. The color comes from the reflection of the surrounding landscape, as well as algae and calcified rocks at the bottom of the shallow lake. Autumn is the best time to visit, when the lake surface appears as a multihued painter°Øs palette.
Hailuogou Glacier National Park is also added into the list.
Tibet
Potala Palace
Reasons:
This nine-story attraction stands 3,700 meters above sea level, making it the highest palace on the planet.
Xinjiang
Lake Karakul
Reasons:
Standing 3,600 meters above sea level on the Pamir Plateau, the glacier lake°Øs water reflects the surrounding mountains like a huge mirror. Best time to go is May to October.
Nalati Grassland is also included in the list.
Yunnan
Pudacuo National Park, Shangri-la
Reasons:
Pudacuo is the first national park in China to meet the criteria set by The World Conservation Union.
More than 20% of the country°Øs plant species and around one-third of its mammal and bird species call this wetland plateau home.
Photographers especially love the area°Øs many types of orchids and China°Øs highly endangered black-necked cranes.
Three Pagodas is in the list together.
Zhejiang
Yunhe Rice Terrace
Reasons:
Literally meaning "peaceful clouds," Yunhe and its surrounding rice terraces have been home to farmers for at least 1,000 years.
Winding in a maze up mountainsides from 200 to 1,400 meters, individual terraces can be constructed of as many as 700 layers.
Rainy days are the best time to visit, when steam from evaporating river water floats through the terraces, creating a kind of agricultural dreamscape.