Why are millions of Indian women dropping out of work?
The numbers are stark - for the first time in India¡¯s recent history, not only was there a decline in the female labour participation rate, but also a shrinking of the total number of women in the workforce.
Nearly 20 million Indian women quit work between 2004-05 to 2011-12.
The labour force participation rate for women of working age declined from 42% in 1993-04 to 31% in 2011-12.
Some 53% of the total drop - the largest chunk - happened among women aged 15-24 and living in villages
In rural areas, the female labour force participation rate dropped from 49% to 37.8% between 2004-05 and 2009-10.
While more than 24 million men joined the work force between 2004-5 to 2009-10, the number of women in the the work force dropped by 21.7 million
Using data gleaned from successive rounds of National Sample Survey Organisation and census data, a team of researchers from World Bank have attempted to find out why this is happening.
Predictable social norms are attributed to women quitting work in India: marriage, motherhood, vexed gender relations and biases, and patriarchy.
But they may not be the only reasons. Marriage, for example, does affect the rate of participation of women in the workforce. But in villages, the workforce participation rate of married women has been found to be higher than that of unmarried women - whereas in the cities, the situation is reversed.
Significantly, rising aspirations and relative prosperity may be actually responsible for putting a large cohort of women out of work in India.
After calculating the labour force participation rates and educational participation rates (young women in schools) the researchers believe that one plausible explanation for the drop in the participation rate among rural girls and women aged 15-24 is the recent expansion of secondary education and rapidly changing social norms leading to "more working age young females opting to continue their education rather than join the labour force early".
The study says there has been a "larger response to income changes among the poor, rather than the wealthy, by sending children to school".
Also, casual workers - mainly women - drop out of the workforce when wages increased for regular earners - mainly men - leading to the stabilisation of family incomes.
But dropping or opting out of the workforce to go to school and get an education may not ensure that these women will eventually go to work.
After studying the relationship with the female labour participation rate and levels of educational achievements, the researchers found that having a high school-level education was "not found to be an incentive for women" to work.
The lowest rate of participation is among those who had secured school and high school education in the cities and villages. And the rate is actually highest among illiterates and college graduates.
To be sure, India has a poor record of female participation in the workforce: the International Labour Organisation ranked it 121 out of 131 countries in 2013, one of the lowest in the world.
Also, India is not an outlier when it comes to women dropping out of the workforce.
Clearly women need better and more suitable job opportunities, outside agriculture. Rural labour markets need to offer jobs that are acceptable and attractive to women and their families.
Also, as another study says, the "ongoing decrease in the availability of farm-based work, has led to women focusing on economic activities within their households". Should home-based workers then be counted as members of the labour force?