Xinjiang county to recruit more police officers, intensify patrol efforts
The government of Akto county, Northwest China¡¯s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, has announced that it will recruit an additional 600 police officers from outside Xinjiang.
"In order to strengthen stability maintenance work in the county, intensify our patrol efforts and enhance the people¡¯s security, the Akto government has approved the recruitment of 600 police officers, including 500 males and 100 females, for the patrol team in the county¡¯s public security bureau," the local government announced on its website on March 31.
Those with a college degree and above will receive 9,064 yuan ($1,300) per month and recruits with a high-school degree will be paid 8,886 yuan. Officers will also receive a performance-related bonus of between 6,000 and 8,000 yuan per year if they pass a test after one year of service.
According to the Xinjiang Daily, the Xinjiang regional government has set an income target for urban residents of 2,500 yuan a month for 2017.
Turgunjan Tursun, a professor with the Zhejiang Normal University, said salaries are high for civil servants in southern Xinjiang thanks to national subsidies which favor national security.
Tursun noted that there is a recent trend to recruit civil servants from outside Xinjiang to balance ethnic ratios "to safeguard the region¡¯s stability."
Police recruitment is open to all ethnic groups, said the government, adding that priority will be given to military veterans as well as police academy graduates.
But restrictions also apply. "People with obscure understandings and attitudes toward the struggle to safeguard the unity of the country, the national unity and to maintain social stability¡­as well as those who have ever joined illegal cults and illegal organizations, such as Falun Gong, are not allowed applying," read the recruitment notice.
The Akto Human Resources and Social Security Bureau has organized two working teams to take charge of the recruitment in Northwest and Central China.