They travel virtually for you
In a growing group, new-media pros make a living by selling their real-time experience as tourists. Xu Lin reports.
It¡¯s probably the most envied job in the world£­to get free in-depth travel all over the world and sometimes with a sizable income, too.
They travel like a local, knowing how to have fun. They go to must-see scenic spots, chat with the locals, eat delicious food and often stay in a five-star hotel. They share their happiness on social media in real time with fans.
Known as "travel experts", they are often invited by tourism bureaus or travel agencies to inbound and outbound familiarization trips. They are the "we-media" emerging in the booming era of social media.
They got their start by accumulating many fans when they shared their self-financed travel experience on social media. Gradually, they¡¯ve become influencers in the industry, finding favor with the advertisers who value their online following.
Zhang Jin and Pang Qianyi from Guangzhou, Guangdong province, are two of them. They are better known online as the "Baozou Sisters"£­baozou means long-distance walking in Chinese, with about 700,000 followers on their joint WeChat account.
"The communication channels are shifting from television and print to mobile devices. We are the first lucky ones to embrace the change," says Zhang, 33.
"Now, we shoulder more responsibility than before because we want to explore more places for our fans. We also tell them how to buy cheap air tickets."
In May, Zhang and Pang, along with a friend, co-founded the new-media company Daydow Info and Tech Ltd Co. The two quit their jobs as Guangdong News Radio hosts, but still present their travel program for radio listeners.
"You have to be quick at everything, ranging from catching the central issue to writing articles," Pang says. "As traveling has become our job, the boundary between work and life is vague. Sometimes our necks ache due to heavy work, but at least we¡¯re doing the things that we like."
Once Pang was so busy with an article on Lunar New Year¡¯s Eve, she couldn¡¯t prepare the family reunion dinner in time.
"In the past, we were proud because of our identity as radio hosts. But now, we¡¯re proud of ourselves, with a great sense of achievement. We¡¯re more in the shoes of our audience and endeavor to know about what they like," Zhang says.
They prefer to make their own itineraries, rather than joining an arranged group tour with peers, so they can have unique adventures.