Money Talks: Language Learners Earn More In Their Careers
Do money and language go hand in hand? You might be surprised at the powerful effects bilingualism has on income and employment.
Everyone¡¯s got their own ideas about how to make a little extra dough, but few people today realize the economic benefits of speaking two languages.
Skeptical? Let¡¯s look at the figures. Some number crunchers at The Economist have determined that workers with more than one language can earn an extra $67,000 over their lifetime. And that¡¯s on the low side; according to estimates on the high end, bilinguals can make an extra $128,000 due to their language proficiency. That means monolinguals (that¡¯s people who speak just one language) could be missing out on the equivalent of a new home or luxury car. Ouch.
Let¡¯s check out some more intriguing statistics. According to language expert and CEO Ryan McMunn, learning a second language boosts your salary anywhere from 10-15%. How¡¯s that for a raise?
In fact, 9 out of 10 European recruiters consider bilingualism critical to hiring new employees. Similarly, a survey of North American job recruiters found 66% agreed that bilingualism will steadily gain importance in the next 10 years.
But how does knowing a second language really help you earn more? In addition to jobs like interpreters and translators (two professions, incidentally, which the Bureau of Labor predicts to grow 28.7% over the next 10 years), there are many ways learning a second language immediately boosts a worker¡¯s chances at earning more.
For job seekers looking to stand out from the crowd, hiring managers notice the increased cultural sensitivity and intelligence that come with being able to speak a foreign language.
Similarly, service industry workers see an increased chance at promotion merely by showing that they¡¯re in the process of learning a new language. Large or small, companies always need employees to travel to and communicate with foreign markets.
Just being able to ¡°meet and greet¡± gives you an immense leg up. For those who run a small business, a second language can prove critical in connecting with your customers and community.
The list of financial benefits to bilingualism is endless. So don¡¯t miss out ¡ª do yourself a favor and pick up a new language today.