Hot job prospects in 2017
In which industries are workers in demand? Who can expect to have deeper pockets in the new year? Let¡¯s have a look at the job market in 2017.
Skilled workers
In January, the State Council published a plan to improve employment in the 13th Five-Year Period (2016-2020). According to the plan, the salary of skilled workers should be raised, incentive schemes improved, and the qualification and diploma certification system should be refined. It also said that a social atmosphere in which skills are valued should be created to cultivate more skilled workers.
Commercial farmers
In the first document released this year, the central government stated that it would push forward the supply-side reform in the agricultural sector by exploring new ways to make good use of the vacant residential houses and homesteads in the countryside that could add to farmers¡¯ income.
Cultivating new types of commercial farmers is also in the State Council plan to improve employment in the 13th Five-Year Period in order to increase the income of farmers and create more job openings.
Health care workers
A document jointly released by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security and three other departments in January stated that a proper level of salary should be paid to health care workers at public hospitals. It also said that revenue from health care services, including consultation, nursing and surgery, should make up a larger share of the total income of hospitals.
Grassroots cadres
The State Council pledged to improve the salary system of grassroots cadres in the 13th Five-Year Period in order to better motivate grassroots cadres through a differentiated incentive system depending on regions and positions.
Scientists and researchers
In a statement published in October, the State Council pledged to build a more knowledge-oriented incentive system in public institutions and enable scientists and researchers to benefit more from the commercialization of scientific research.
Corporate managers
In a statement on increasing the income of residents published in October, the State Council pledged to improve the incentive system of State-owned enterprises, and provide more motivation for entrepreneurs in the private sector.