Four things to watch at the Brics summit
The leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa are meeting amid heightened geopolitical tensions.
The summit of the so-called Brics nations brings together the five fast-growing economies, who are seeking a greater say in world affairs.
Economic ties will top the agenda at the three-day gathering in Xiamen, China which began Sunday.
But North Korea¡¯s nuclear test and a border standoff between China and India could also colour discussions.
So what are the four key things to watch out for at this meeting?
1. ¡¯Growing the pie¡¯ without ¡¯touching the cheese¡¯
While US President Donald Trump has pushed a protectionist trade agenda, China is striking a very different tone.
Chinese President Xi Jinping told the meeting that there is little to fear from closer trade ties.
"We should push for an open world economy, promote trade liberalisation and facilitation, jointly create a new global value chain, and realise a global economic rebalancing," President Xi Jinping told Brics business leaders and senior officials in a speech on Sunday.
"The development of emerging markets and developing countries won¡¯t touch anyone¡¯s cheese, but instead will diligently grow the world economic pie," he said.
2. One Belt One Road
One Belt One Road aims to expand trade links between Asia, Africa, Europe and beyond through infrastructure investments.
"I am convinced that the Belt and Road initiative will serve as a new platform for all countries to achieve win-win cooperation," said President Xi.
3. The New Development Bank
Construction began over the weekend on headquarters in Shanghai for the New Development Bank (NDB), which is the Brics alternative to the World Bank.
The NDB was seen as the first major Brics achievement.
To date, the NDB has invested in 11 projects, lending $1.5bn in 2016 with an additional $2.5bn in loans set for this year.
4. North Korea¡¯s sixth nuclear test
The conference had an unwelcome surprise in the form of North Korea¡¯s sixth nuclear test on Sunday.
China said it strongly condemned the nuclear test and urged Pyongyang to stop its "wrong" actions.