5 reasons to quit your job even though you like it
Do you actually like your job? Yes? Then congratulations, that puts you ahead of the majority of Singaporeans who hate their jobs and are miserable at work.
But just because you actually kinda like your job doesn¡¯t mean you should stay there forever.
Here are five reasons it¡¯s time to say goodbye.
Your salary is stagnating
No matter how impressive your salary was when you first joined your company, it may not always stay that way.
Private sector increments have a habit of stagnating if you¡¯re not careful, while is why recruitment agents will tell you it¡¯s unwise to stay in a job for more than three years.
That¡¯s because you can usually expect a 10 per cent to 20 per cent increment when you change jobs, which is much higher than the average expected wage increment of a pathetic 2.9 per cent.
There¡¯s nothing more for you to learn
No matter how high you climb, you must never stop learning. Earlier on in your carrier, learning is going to be the key to raising your salary and getting promoted.
Later on, you will need to continually upgrade yourself to ensure you don¡¯t get retrenched.
At some point, especially if you are working in a company or department of limited scale, you will find that you¡¯ve milked your job dry of learning opportunities.
Resist the urge to get complacent and let yourself coast along, doing the same thing every day, as you¡¯ll become a prime candidate for retrenchment if you keep it up long enough.
You¡¯re not going to get promoted
There are many reasons you¡¯ll never get promoted at your current company. Maybe there¡¯s a limited number of positions in your company, and the only way for you to get promoted is for the guy one rung above you to die or retire.
Or maybe you¡¯re working for a family business, and all the positions above yours are filled by your boss¡¯s kids.
Then it¡¯s time to leave in search of a company where there is room for you to grow.
You¡¯re not on the right career path
Most people graduate from university/poly not really knowing what they want out of their future career. Early- and mid-career changes are not at all unusual.
If you feel you¡¯re not on the right career path and a gnawing dissatisfaction eats away at you each day, that¡¯s a valid reason to leave your job once you¡¯ve saved up enough to mitigate the financial risks.
You may not be able to see your path with 100 per cent clarity, but leaving your job to experiment with different possibilities can be beneficial in itself.
For instance, if you¡¯re a civil servant but you feel a start-up environment would be much more dynamic, unless you want to live a life of regrets you should probably prepare to make a job switch no matter how comfortable you are in your current role.
You have received an offer you can¡¯t refuse
A headhunter took a look at your kickass LinkedIn profile and has now invited you to interview for a position that is much more ambitious, both in terms of scope and salary, than your current role.
If you actually like your current job, deciding whether to stay or go can be tough. While taking up this new offer might be advantageous for your career, it¡¯s hard not to worry that you¡¯ll dislike the company culture, suffer from poor work-life balance or have a bad boss.
Avoid looking at your current job with rose-tinted glasses, and try to evaluate the two dispassionately.
Leaving a job you¡¯re very comfortable in can seem like a scary proposition, especially when you¡¯ve already worked there for several years, but be careful not to lose out on opportunities just because you¡¯re afraid of change.
Have you ever quit a job you liked? Tell us why you did it in the comments!