China blasts Theresa May as ¡¯weak and vulnerable¡¯ and says it won¡¯t allow war on its doorstep after Trump declared that ¡¯talking is not the answer¡¯ on North Korea
China has attacked UK Prime Minister Theresa May, calling her ¡¯weak and vulnerable¡¯, as she urged Beijing take action against North Korea.
Mrs May asked China to use its leverage as North Korea¡¯s main ally to put pressure on Pyongyang, following Tuesday¡¯s launch of a test missile over Japan.
But Beijing has today said that war is ¡¯not an option¡¯ to resolve the issue of North Korea¡¯s claims it is getting close to developing nuclear weapons.
An editorial in the state-run Chinese newspaper Global Times said: ¡¯May¡¯s Conservative party lost many seats, turning her into a vulnerable prime minister.
¡¯Weak people often look for opportunities to show their strength. Beijing does not need London to teach it how to deal with North Korea.¡¯
The editorial also accused Mrs May of ¡¯rehashing¡¯ U.S. President Donald Trump¡¯s statements on North Korea.
Earlier today, China¡¯s Defense Ministry spokesman Col. Ren Guoqiang said that all parties should exercise restraint and avoid words and actions that escalate tension.
Ren said it¡¯s China¡¯s position that ¡¯military means cannot be an option for resolving this issue.¡¯
Beijing has also slammed a report that suggested the US, Japan and Britain were planning fresh punitive measures against the North, saying calls for sanctions were ¡¯destructive¡¯ and that those measures alone ¡¯cannot fundamentally resolve the issue¡¯.
The British Prime Minister¡¯s comments on China¡¯s role in de-escalating tensions between North Korea and the rest of the world came during her trip to Japan this week.
Mrs May said: ¡¯Now we need to ensure it¡¯s not just words of condemnation, but that action is taken, and China does have a particular position in this.
¡¯They have leverage on North Korea, and I believe we should be encouraging China to exercise that leverage.¡¯
The statements by China and Mrs May came after President Donald Trump declared that ¡¯talking is not the answer¡¯ on North Korea.